# Greek Epic - Tufts University, Fall 2025

## Details

Time: M 6–8:30pm <br/>
Location: Eaton Hall 201 <br/>
Instructor: Charles Pletcher (charles.pletcher@tufts.edu) <br/>
Instructor Office Hours: TTh 3–4pm <br/>

## Prerequisites

Completion of Greek 3 or higher, or graduate standing

## Description

This course prepares students to read ancient Greek epic (Homer, Hesiod, and —
vocabulary notwithstanding — Apollonius). Beginning with a quick review of basic
grammar and syntax, we will explore the literary, cultural, historical, and
performance context of Homeric epic.

Homeric Greek is peculiar: a _Künstsprache_ mixing elements of various Greek
dialects in order to broaden its audience, it bears some similarities to the
contemporary "mid-Atlantic accent" that populates news stations. At the same
time, it is highly formulaic, lending itself well to the oral performance
culture that both supported and was supported by it.

In this iteration of the course, we will read _Iliad_ 6, which contains the
emotionally tense gift exchange between Glaucos and Diomedes, as well as the
epic's only scene of true domesticity, when Hector briefly reunites with
Andromache and their infant son Astyanax. Supplementary readings for this unit
concern the historical and anthropological backgrounds of gift exchange and the
roles of women in archaic Greek society.

Subsequently, we will read books 17 and 18 of the _Odyssey_. These books concern
Odysseus's return to Ithaca and his entry into the palace. In addition to the
primary text, we will read Eric Auerbach's famous essay on Eurykleia's
recognition of Odysseus's scar, as well as texts on class and social status in
antiquity.

In addition to gaining essential skills for independent Greek reading, students
will also learn how to use modern tools like treebanks and LLMs to complement —
**not supplement** — their studies.

## Textbooks

- Graziosi, Barbara and Johannes Haubold, eds. 2010. _Homer:_ Iliad
  _Book VI_. Cambridge: Cambridge UP. ISBN: 9780521878845
- Steiner, Deborah, ed. 2010. _Homer_: Odyssey _Books XVII and
  XVIII_. Cambridge: Cambridge UP. ISBN: 9780521677110

## Why on Earth are we studying ancient Greek in 2025?

If you are in this class, you likely have an answer to this question at hand —
you've no doubt been asked it on a near-weekly basis for at least the past year.

But it bears addressing here, if only so that we can begin the course with a
discussion of what exactly it is that we're doing.

Unlike in Spanish, Russian, and Arabic classes, we are not aiming for the
fluency of native speakers.

Unlike English classes (_pace_ my colleagues in the English Department), we are
not (simply) trying to figure out what these texts _meant_ and how that
influences what they now _mean_ for us.

And unlike, say, biology classes, we are not (simply) conducting experiments
with observable outcomes and testing them against hypotheses informed by the
latest scientific advancements.

I add the parenthetical "simply"s above to suggest that, in some cases, we are
doing these things: reading and interpretation in ancient studies often involves
recontextualizing familiar stories as new evidence comes to light, and we often
test our interpretations like hypotheses in a lab. At the same time, classicists
are often asked to do _something extra_, whether by "extra" we mean unpacking a
particularly thorny etymology, tracing the evolution of a word or custom, or
trying to identify precisely what is meant by _peplos_ in a particular scene.

These are not vain or omphaloskeptic exercises but are rather ways to practice
seeing the world. (This is a common trait of literature classes across the
humanities, but I want to focus on AncMed-specific ways of reading in order to
avoid flying off into abstraction.) The practice of deciphering truth in here
has direct applications to the everyday necessity of discerning the truth
outside of the classroom. And this process is not once-and-done but an ongoing
struggle (cf. the chariot-soul in Plato's _Phaedrus_ or the second invocation of
the Muses in _Iliad_ 2).

Now, I realize that I'm largely preaching to the choir and that this "advice,"
or whatever it is, likely contains little of practical use. Still, as
departments like ours are eliminated at an alarmingly accelerating pace, it
seems to be worthwhile sometimes to discuss what we mean to accomplish by
reading Homer.

By the way, please feel free to disagree: I mean here to be suggestive, not
prescriptive. But I also mean to alert you all to the fact that by the end of
this course, I hope you can do something more with Greek than identify a nifty
_hapax_.

## [Reading schedule](./schedule.md)

## Grading

## Policies
